feat: allow plex override (#22119)
carbon-design-system/carbon: packages/type/README.md

`font-size`, `font-family`, and some `text-rendering` options. We also map the
`strong` tag to the semibold font weight.

> ### Override

Reviewer: Here's my take on this documentation, based on the example. 

--------------

### Replacing the typeface

Carbon is designed, tested, and tuned for IBM Plex. We do not recommend replacing the Carbon typeface. If you absolutely need to use a different typeface, you'll need to treat it as a build-time Sass customization that your application owns. There is no support for runtime typeface overrides on prebuilt/CDN Carbon styles.

> [!WARNING]  
> **Use at your own risk**
> 
> Overriding the Carbon typeface has broad design and accessibility implications. Carbon type styles are tuned with IBM Plex metrics in mind, including line heights, letter spacing, weight, glyph proportions,
ligatures, and fallback behavior. A replacement typeface can change layout, wrapping, density, readability, and interaction states. It can be a significant design and engineering effort to make another typeface work correctly across an application.

To use carbon with a different typeface, three things are needed:

1. Turn off Carbon's Plex `@font-face` generation
2. Change the root `font-family` definition(s)
3. Supply your own `@font-face` rules

You can accomplish the first two by configuring the sass entrypoint that your application compiles. This configuration must happen before any other `@use` of Carbon Sass modules.

```scss
@use 'sass:string';

@use '@carbon/styles' with (
  // Turn off Carbon's Plex `@font-face` generation
  $css--font-face: false,

  // Change the root `font-family` definition(s)
  $font-families: (
    'sans':
      string.unquote(
        "'Inter Local', system-ui, -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, '.SFNSText-Regular', sans-serif"
      ),
    'mono':
      string.unquote(
        "'IBM Plex Mono', system-ui, -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, '.SFNSText-Regular', monospace"
      ),
    'serif':
      string.unquote(
        "'IBM Plex Serif', system-ui, -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, '.SFNSText-Regular', serif"
      ),
    // Include any other Carbon font family keys your application compiles.
  )
);
```

`$font-families` is not merged with Carbon's defaults. If you configure this
map, include every family key your compiled styles need, such as `sans`, `mono`,
`serif`, or any additional language-specific Plex stacks used by your
application.

Then, supply your own `@font-face` rules to load your replacement font assets.

```scss
@font-face {
  font-display: swap;
  font-family: 'Inter Local';
  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: 400;
  src: url('./fonts/inter-latin-400-normal.woff2') format('woff2');
}

@font-face {
  font-display: swap;
  font-family: 'Inter Local';
  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: 600;
  src: url('./fonts/inter-latin-600-normal.woff2') format('woff2');
}
```

Only load the weights, styles, and unicode ranges that your application needs, but make sure they cover the font weights and styles your Carbon usage emits. If you use a third-party font service, review its privacy and regional compliance implications carefully, including whether font requests expose user data in ways your application cannot accept.

> In rare cases, you may want to override the font family for a specific font
> stack. You can do this by setting the `--cds-font-family-<type-style>` CSS
> variable. For example, to override the `sans` font family in order to use
> `Inter` as the font family, you can do the following:

Reviewer 2: `--cds-font-family-<type-style>` seems misleading because the supported keys are font-family names like `sans`, `mono`, and `serif`, not Carbon type styles like `body-01` or `productive-heading-01`.

```suggestion
In rare cases, you may want to override the font family for a specific font
stack. You can do this by setting the `--cds-font-family-<font-family-name>` CSS
variable. For example, to override the `sans` font family in order to use
`Inter` as the font family, you can do the following:
```

```scss
:root {
  --cds-font-family-sans: 'Inter', system-ui, sans-serif;
}

.my-selector {
  @include type.font-family('sans');
}
```

The function provides a fallback to the default Plex font family if the variable

> is not set or if the font family is not found in the system.

Reviewer 2: This wording seems inaccurate. `var()` only falls back when `--cds-font-family-*` is unset or invalid. If someone sets it to a font that is not installed, the browser will use the rest of that overridden stack, not switch back to the default Plex stack.

```suggestion
The function provides a fallback to the default Plex font family if the variable
is not set.
```
